## Import Grace (.agr) files into Inkscape

*Updated (2020) for python3 and Inkscape 1.0beta*

Plots prepared using the
[Grace](http://plasma-gate.weizmann.ac.il/Grace/ "Grace home page")
plotting package can be exported to EPS, cropped to bounding box, and
imported into the [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/en/ "Inkscape home
page") drawing package.  This exension automates these intermediate
steps by wrapping the necessary command line tools into an Inkscape
extension.

### Installation

Copy the files `agr_import.py` and `agr_import.inx` into your local
Inkscape extension folder (eg `$HOME/.config/inkscape/extensions/` on
unix, or `%APPDATA%\inkscape\extensions\` on Windows).

The following tools are also required:

* `gracebat`, 'headless' (batch) mode tool which usually comes with
[Grace](http://plasma-gate.weizmann.ac.il/Grace/ "Grace home page") ;
* `epstool`, which is often packaged as a standalone tool and can be
obtained from the
[epstool](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/gsview/epstool.htm "epstool home page")
home page;
* `ps2pdf`, which is part of Ghostscript (if you
can already import EPS then you have this).

### Usage

In Inkscape, Grace (`.agr`) files should now appear under File &rarr;
Import, and can be selected for import.  The conversion to EPS (PDF)
is done automatically, and the subsequent dialogue is the standard one
for importing EPS (PDF) files.  The intermediate (temporary) EPS (PDF)
files are discarded.

I have noticed an occasional problem with the bounding box when
importing the EPS generated by Grace directly into Inkscape.  The
intermediate processing step with `epstool --bbox --copy` seems to fix
this problem.

### Copying

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

### Copyright

This program is copyright &copy; 2015, 2020 Patrick B Warren.

The program is based on `eps_input.inx`, `ps2pdf-ext.py` (python script for running
`ps2pdf` in Inkscape extensions) and `run_command.py` (module for
running SVG-generating commands in Inkscape extensions) -- copyright
&copy; 2008 Stephen Silver.

### Contact

Email: <patrickbwarren@gmail.com>
